Good morning, everyone,
and welcome to Multiplayer
Gaming with Game Center.
I'm Christy Warren,
and I hope you're having a great WWDC.
I love it here.
New toys, new APIs, new fun.
So I'm here to tell you about how to
add multiplayer gaming to your game.
I'm going to talk about
our matchmaking UI,
which makes it easy and quick for
you to have players connect with
other players to play your game.
I'm going to talk about
programmatic matchmaking,
which will allow you to create
a more custom user experience.
I'm going to talk about how to
Share data between instances of your
game via peer-to-peer communications.
And I'm going to then take you on a tour
through the world of turn-based gaming,
which is a great new feature we
added in iOS 5 that allows for more
freeform and asynchronous gameplay.
But first let's talk about why
add multiplayer to your game.
Now I know that you're at a
multiplayer gaming session,
so you probably already want to do this.
But let's talk about the benefits.
How many of you out there,
raise your hands if you have a
game on the App Store already?
Or are planning on it?
Well, one of your biggest challenges,
at least from what I hear
and what I understand,
is discoverability.
You've worked long and hard and
you've made your game awesome.
But it is just one game out of
650,000 apps on the App Store.
And there are players like me who
love games and want to play your game,
but how do I discover them?
Well,
let's suppose I own a copy of your game
and my friend Nate over here doesn't.
If it's single player,
I could just wait until
I see him next time.
I go into the office or whatever and say,
"Hey, you know, this game is awesome.
Why don't you download and
buy it?" If your game supports
multiplayer and I own it,
I can invite him to play,
and he'll see this on his screen.
And when he taps on this,
It'll take him right to a buy
button and he can buy your game.
This is free and easy viral
marketing that you get by
just supporting multiplayer.
Furthermore,
multiplayer makes your game stand out.
If I just play a single player game,
I'm playing against AI.
I'm going to go off in
the corner and play.
I might earn an achievement.
I killed 30 robots.
Okay, whatever, move on.
There's another 599,000
games on the App Store,
or apps on the App Store.
But if it's multiplayer
and I'm playing a game,
say I'm playing a tennis game with
Nate and he aces me five times and
he gets the five aces achievement,
I'm going to see that on his
office door and I'm going to hear
about it for the next two weeks.
Suddenly, your game moves from being just
a personal experience to being
woven into my social milieu,
increases engagement and competition,
and it makes those leaderboards
and achievements really matter.
Because suddenly, I've got to play them,
I've got to beat them,
I've got to make up for that mistake.
And finally, the top games in the
App Store support multiplayer.
If you look back over the history of
gaming in the last 10 or 20 years,
think about the names that stand out,
that have large and
long-lasting communities.
Websites dedicate them,
or even conventions.
These games support multiplayer.
Wouldn't you like a chance for
your game to gain immortality?
So what's new in iOS 6?
Well, we give you a new and streamlined
matchmaking UI that lets your
players get into your game quickly.
We also give you the ability to
discover players on nearby devices.
So even if they're not your friends,
you know,
if he's running a game and she's
running a game right here in this room,
I can find them, connect with them,
and play with them.
with him.
We also support,
in addition to programmatic auto-match,
we support programmatic invites.
So now the full functionality
of our standard UI is available
to you programmatically,
so you can make it blend better
with your application or your game.
Also...
Also, when your game is over,
on the Game Over screen,
you can add a re-match button
and get your players back
into the action right away.
And also we support the
ability to do host selection.
What this means is if
we have four devices,
it's often a good idea to pick
one device to act as the master.
And now we make that really easy to do.
And for turn-based gaming,
we support better handling of missed
turns and the ability to save your
match data in the middle of a turn.
But perhaps the biggest feature
new in iOS 6 is the ability to face
off with your friends on the Mac.
And this is awesome.
There have been success stories where
developers have ported their iOS
game to the Mac in just a few days,
at least get it up and running.
So the relatively small
amount of engineering work,
you can open up this additional platform.
New customers, newer App Store, you know,
great opportunity to expand
your base and get visibility.
So let's talk about the
styles of multiplayer.
We support three styles: peer-to-peer,
turn-based, and server-based.
Peer-to-peer supports 2-4 players.
Turn-based supports 2-16.
And server-based is also 2-16.
The gameplay in peer-to-peer
is simultaneous.
This means I get my device,
three of my friends get their devices,
we connect up and we play together.
It's kind of the classic
way we do multiplayer.
Turn-based is a different breed.
In turn-based, I can create a match.
I can pass the turn to another.
And when I'm not playing,
I don't even have to be at the table.
I can walk away, I can tweet,
I can do whatever I want.
And only when it becomes my turn again
do I have to return to that game.
So it actually supports a
mobile lifestyle even more
nicely than peer-to-peer.
and server base.
So the sequence is a sequential play.
Server base is usually simultaneous.
I mean, yes,
there are chess servers out there where
you can play turn-based games online,
but this is typically to
implement your MMORPG or similar
massively online service.
The hosting on peer-to-peer is either
a particular device or distributed.
Turn-based is fully distributed.
Server-based is your server.
The communication in peer-to-peer
is point-to-point or broadcast.
Turn-based is just point-to-point.
And server-based is developer-defined.
We provide the APIs to do data
transmission for turn-based
and peer-to-peer and in-server.
You're on your own.
Sorry.
Let's talk about
peer-to-peer multiplayer.
A few concepts for those of you
who may not be familiar with this.
We're going to illustrate this with
an example of a four-player game.
Dungeon, death, cage match.
The idea is you get together
with four other players,
you pick a hero or a monster,
and you get in and you rumble with them.
So to set this game up,
the first thing you do is you
begin the matchmaking process.
This creates the game table,
and the game table represents
your communication channel.
This is how all the data
moves back and forth,
the state changes and
notifications occur,
and even handles the invite process.
So the first thing we do
is we invite my friends,
in this case Sue and Bob.
The fourth player is one of those
famous players to be named later.
So Sue and Bob accept,
and now they're in the channel.
Depending on how you implement this,
you could even at this
point set up a voice chat,
which you can read about
in the documentation.
Or you could start some
initial game activity.
But in this case,
let's say we're gonna move on
and find this fourth player.
In this case, Meg joins in.
And now that everyone's present,
we're good to go.
We can play.
So to build this,
these are the tasks you have to do.
You have to implement the process
of picking the players via invite
or nearby players or via auto-match.
And by nearby players,
I mean other people running
the devices in the same room.
Then once we're invited,
we wait for the players to connect
and observe their state changes.
And then once we're ready to go,
we play and we send and receive data.
So on the left here,
there's entry points.
And let's talk about that for a moment.
You know, there's three entry
points that a user will --
: The first is kind of obvious.
You'll have a button in your game,
play multiplayer.
When they press it,
the UI comes up and they can immediately
press play to go into the game.
And this is our new UI.
It's really awesome.
If you tap the close box,
it will make that slot go away.
It has two to four players.
And when they hit the close box,
it will go to three players.
Hit it again, it will go to two.
And you have the ability
to add them back in.
If you hit invite friends,
it'll bring up a friend picker and
let you choose some friends to play.
And once you choose them,
You'll go right into the game adding
any auto-match players if necessary.
So just set up and go.
No more complicated interactions.
That's awesome.
The second and third entry
points are kind of related.
The second one is if Nate invites me and
I get one of those notification banners
and I tap it and I accept the invite,
we will launch your game.
And once we launch the game,
you need to put up this UI and
show the matchmaking in progress.
And once it connects, you're good to go.
And kind of similar to that,
if I hit -- if I go into Game Center and
I find a game that Nate is playing,
I can tap play right there and
that will launch the app and start
the -- it will also invite Nate,
but it will start the matchmaking
process and you need to go through a
similar thing where you put up the UI.
So let's talk about this UI.
What do we need to put it up?
We make a match request.
Match request contains sort
of your preferences about
what you want from the match,
like the number of players.
Is it two or is it four?
We then pass that to the
matchmaker view controller.
And that will interact with a
singleton matchmaker under the
covers and produce the GK match.
GK match is this game table.
It's your channel for communications.
So to set up,
we make the match request and
specify the number of players,
min and max.
There's some other options
which I'll talk about later.
Once we have the match request,
we show the view controller.
You construct the view controller,
pass in the master request.
And this is important.
You need to set the delegate.
And as with many of our APIs,
or most of our APIs,
if you don't set the delegate,
things will just mysteriously not work.
So make sure you do that.
And then you present it as usual.
Now...
Once the user hits play or takes
some other action in the UI,
you need to respond to those actions.
So we do that with the delegate.
In this case,
we're going to show what happens
when we successfully find a match.
You have a new match,
so you set the delegate.
Now it's your code and
you're ready to go.
You know, just set up your match and go.
Now, that's one of the delegate
methods we implement,
which is when the user hits
play or they invite friends.
The user hits cancel on the upper left.
If the match fails,
like I've invited Jeff or Nate and
they're on a bus going through a tunnel,
they've accepted,
then the bus goes in the tunnel,
they lose connection,
they'll get did fail with error and
you need to take appropriate action.
Now, on the handling invitation side,
you implement an invite handler block.
And this block implements the
second two entry points for when
you accept an invite or when
you launch from Game Center.
And this is important.
You want to give your
users good experience,
don't you?
So when you accept an invite,
you'll launch the app.
I don't want to go through a
bunch of set-up screens or menus.
I want to go right into the matchmaking
process and get into the game.
So install that invite
handler as early as possible.
And we recommend you actually
authenticate an application
that did finish launching.
And then install your event handler
if you successfully authenticate.
That will get called automatically.
And you'll be able to
go right on from there.
So how do we implement this?
Well, you have one invite handler
for both kinds of -- you know,
both these invite entry points.
And it takes two arguments.
It takes a GK invite
and a list of players.
Only one of these will be non-nil,
depending on whether it was the accept
invite or the Game Center launch.
So if there's an invite,
we construct a matchmaker view controller
and set the day we'll get a present.
And we set the matchmaker view
controller to the same pattern as before.
If there are players,
we use a different initializer,
a match request, and players to invite.
And we set the delegate and we present.
And that's all there is to it.
So in summary,
we create the match request.
We present the standard UI.
We handle the invites.
And this same UI, by the way,
works if you want to
host the game yourself.
The only difference is you go
through a little different API that
doesn't return a GK match data.
Or GK match.
It returns a -- it just gives
you the information required to
let you go on with your server.
And you can read about
that in the documentation.
So now let's say you want to
provide your own custom look.
You want to do the UI yourself.
We now give you all the features
to do programmatic matchmaking.
So to do this,
you make your match request,
and this time you call the
Singleton matchmaker directly,
and it will return your match.
So do this.
This is all the code you need.
Just this little bit.
You get the shared matchmaker.
You call find match for request.
Handle any errors if you need to.
In other words, you're good to go.
So if you want to get your -- if
you have a single-player game and
you want to try out multiplayer,
this is the only code you have to
write other than handling the data.
You can get connected.
You can start trying out your game.
And you're good to go.
It's that easy.
And if you want to find nearby
players running your game,
it's also pretty easy.
You get the shared matchmaker.
You call this new API,
start browsing for nearby
players with reachable.
And if you find one,
someone using a device in the same room,
add them to the array.
Probably a good idea to check
if they're reachable or not.
And when you're done looking,
you call stop browsing.
Now, new for iOS 6, we can send invites.
You know, programmatically.
So what you do is you get
your shared matchmaker.
In the match request, there's a field,
Players Who Invite, and you give it the
players you wish to invite.
These may be players that you've
played with previously or players you
just discovered through that local
multiplayer browsing that we just did.
And once you have them,
you call find match requests.
You get your match and you're good to go.
Now one thing you need to do
is when you invite someone,
you may wish to give feedback
for when the players responded.
You may want to go from
inviting to connecting,
or you may wish to show that
they're actually ready to go.
So we allow you to implement
a response handler.
And this gets called.
And at this point,
you can mark your players
accepted in your UI.
And then there's also a good
trigger for starting your game.
You can ask yourself,
do I have enough players yet?
And if you are,
you can tell the matchmaker,
finish matchmaking, and we're good to go.
Now let me step back and talk about some
other features on the match request.
You know,
player groups is a way to allow players
of like minds to play the part of
the game that they love the most.
So let's illustrate
this with a racing game.
So let's say there's
four kinds of tracks:
oval, figure eight, curvy,
and the wave with that long straightaway.
And my favorite track
is the figure eight.
And let me tell you a secret,
it's because it's the
only one I'm any good at.
So I want to play with other players
who love the figure-eight track.
So I can just set that by setting
the player group on the match
request of the figure-eight track.
This is a constant that you define.
It's a 32-bit int.
You can define as many
or as few as you wish.
And we'll just match them in.
So other ideas for this is easy, normal,
or hard.
Or game type.
You might want to play Deathmatch or
Capture the Flag or Team Fortress.
But there's one subtlety here, which is,
let's say I love to play the oval track,
but the rest of you like the other three.
And I'm trying to match
at three in the morning.
Well, there may not be anybody else on,
so I might be waiting a
long time to get a match.
That's not a good user experience.
So what can we do?
Well, we have an API to check for the
activity on that player group.
So you can check that,
and if it's low or zero, you can say,
"Hey, Christy, nobody else is playing
that track right now.
Do you want to go into the general pool,
or do you wish to pick another track?"
So that's a good feature if
you wish to use player groups.
Now kind of a dual to that in a moment,
yay, is player attributes.
This allows you to specify the role
that you wish to play in the game.
This is a 32-bit unsigned integer.
And what we do is I get a value,
Nate gets a value.
Each player who wishes
to play chooses a value.
And they'll be orred together.
And a match will be made if
all the numbers are orred
together to form a match.
A pattern of all ones in the bits.
So let's walk through
this with an example.
In chess, maybe I prefer to play black.
So I'll give it the pattern FFF000.
If Megan likes to play white,
she gets 000FFF.
Let's say Nate is happy
to play either color.
So he'll just give me all Fs.
And when we matchmake,
we'll pick players that will
match together to all Fs.
Now Nate, even though he's got all Fs,
will not just match with himself
because we also have to meet the other
requirements like minimum players.
So it'll pick any other player.
So other examples of this,
a role-playing game like
our Dungeon Cage Match.
You could pick fighter, cleric, mage,
or thief.
Or in a soccer game, goalie, forward,
or defense.
So in summary,
you create the match request,
use player groups or
attributes as desired,
you request the match,
you wait for them to connect,
and then you play.
So now let's talk about
once you've made a match,
how do you do the communications
between the peers?
So we're first talking about
networking strategy and host selection.
How to send and receive data.
How to observe state changes.
So on the right here,
I'm showing our GK match and
you implement a match delegate.
And these four things you implement
are all you have to do to handle
peer-to-peer communications.
Let's go into this.
But first, networking strategy.
If I have four devices that are playing
your game and they're sharing data,
one way I might do this is
every time I make a move,
I broadcast my changes to
the other four players.
And if Nate makes a move,
he broadcasts to all four
players and so forth.
Now, this is not a good idea.
It consumes unnecessary bandwidth
because it's sending redundant data.
And furthermore, if I'm making changes,
Nate's making changes,
Dan's making changes,
you're going to have to implement some
kind of conflict resolution coherency.
And that's a lot of
complexity for your code.
There's a better way.
Choose one of your devices as the host.
It'll be the holder of
the truth of your app,
of your game.
The other devices can
communicate their updates.
My device can reconcile those changes
and then broadcast it to the others.
This uses less bandwidth
and makes your code simpler.
So that's a win all around.
Now, in the past,
we've told you to do this.
But it turns out, I mean,
if you ever try to get, you know,
yourself and three of your friends to,
you know, when they're not in the same
room to agree on anything,
coordinate on anything,
that's a difficult problem.
And we kind of had you guys
solving that in the past.
But new in iOS 6, we give you a simple
API to pick your host.
All four devices call choose best
host player with completion handler.
And it will pick one of the player
IDs based on the device they're using,
the network they're using, and so forth.
And it will be consistent
across all four devices.
Once you call this,
you've got your host picked.
It is that easy.
So now let's talk about sending data.
There are three choices
that you need to make here.
The first one is data size and frequency.
And what this is about is,
let's say I have my space shooter game.
And I'm flying my spaceship.
And I want the peer to see every
movement I make as I jitter
my finger across the screen.
I want to make the ship move.
I could do this by sending the update 60
times a second and I send all the data
on the game as my ship's moving across.
Well, that's obviously a bad idea.
It's inefficient.
It sends unnecessary data.
And it sends it too often.
So you should use some techniques
like dead reckoning where you not
only send over the new positions,
you send their velocities,
their acceleration.
You could even analyze the movement
of my finger and generate a standard
deviation and send that across.
Then the peer...
can just model that and interpolate.
Now you can send the
information less often.
Rather than 60 times a second,
you send it five times a second.
And this improves your latency
and your user experience.
So make good choices here.
Now you can also choose
communication styles,
you know,
between reliable and unreliable.
You know, unreliable,
you just send the packet and forget it.
And this is good for clocked
updates like my ship movement.
You know,
because I've already implemented
this interpolation logic,
it's okay if one of my
clocked updates is missed.
You know,
the peer can predict the movement
and fill in the missing parts.
Now, for something like, you know,
my ship blows up,
and so now I have two ships left,
that's an event, and it's important the
other side knows that.
I'm not going to send it again.
So I use reliable communications,
and it sends the packet.
If the packet doesn't make it to
Nate or whoever is receiving it,
Game Center will send it again.
It will retry it until it
gets an acknowledgement.
So it's good for events,
but it's not good for sort
of ongoing game activity.
Now the final choice is whether you send
to individual players or to all players.
And this code here shows how
to send data to all players.
You just make an NSData with your data,
send data to all players with data mode,
and there's an out parameter
of an error that gets called,
and you need to handle that error.
The code for sending to specific
players is just as easy.
You make an array.
If you're hosted,
it'll probably be one player,
but you could send it to two or three,
your choice.
And it's the same kind of thing.
Send data to players
with data mode and error.
Now receiving data is even easier.
You get a callback on your delegate,
did receive data,
and will tell you what player sent it.
Now, the last thing you need to do
is to check for state changes.
When a player connects,
you want to show some
feedback they're connecting.
You maybe put their photo
on the screen or something.
We checked for that state and did change
state and if the player is connected,
give that feedback.
If they've disconnected,
You know, take appropriate action.
And this is also a good time
to call expected players.
If your game hasn't started,
The expected players will tell you
how many players are still connecting.
If you have no expected players,
you're ready to start your game.
Now, if you lose connection and it's a
one-on-one game that's invite-only,
You can implement should we
invite player in your delegate.
If you make this true,
then if I invite someone,
let's say Megan,
and she's on a bus going through a
tunnel and she loses her connection,
all is not lost.
Game Center on your behalf will
send her a new invite and when
she comes out of that tunnel,
she'll get that invite and she accepts.
She's back in the action playing
with me as if nothing had happened.
I can also add other players
to the existing game,
and this follows the
similar pattern closely.
Get your match request.
Update the parameters as you desire.
Create the view controller.
And then call this API,
add players to match,
giving it your current match.
So in summary,
we've talked about the matchmaking
UI and how it can quickly
get players into your game.
We've talked about handling invites
and programmatic matchmaking if
you wish to roll your own UI.
And we've talked about
peer-to-peer communication and
some of the best practices.
And now let's move on to turn-based.
So in contrast to peer-to-peer,
Not everyone has to be at
the table at the same time.
There's no need to manage
connection and disconnection.
Instead, you're playing a game.
In this example,
we have four players or four
friends in a six-player game and
you and a player to be named later.
So right now it's my turn.
So I have to be at the table,
but the others may not be there yet.
In fact, this may be a new match.
They've not even been invited.
And when I take my turn
and I pass it to Sue,
she gets an invite.
When she accepts, she's now at the table.
Same for Bob.
Now even the player to be named later,
when we pass the turn to them,
they get matched in at that point.
So far the match has proceeded
in sort of a natural order,
but it's not restricted to that.
Meg could choose to pass the turn to Sam.
Now Sam, being really grateful,
could pass it back to Meg.
and Meg may choose then
to pass it back to you.
The order is completely up to you.
Now let's go into a little more
detail of how the turn flow goes.
So it's my turn.
I've updated my game data.
I pass it to the server.
Sue gets a push notification.
If Sue wishes to take this
turn or accept this invite,
she gets the game data it's her turn.
She now passes it to Bob.
Now let's say Bob is going
on a trip around the world.
And he's one of these
people who likes to,
when he's on vacation,
he's really on vacation,
so he's off the grid.
He's left his phone at home.
I know that's hard for a lot of us, but,
you know, it's a good thing to do.
So Bob misses his turn.
Now this is a problem in iOS 5,
because now this match is stuck.
Bob never comes back to it.
The game's dead.
But thankfully in iOS 6 we have a new
API called Fallbacks and Timeouts.
And with Fallbacks and Timeouts,
Sue could choose not just Bob,
but Meg and the others.
As many players as they want.
They can even repeat players or make
it the player who has the current turn.
The game will time out
and pass it to Meg.
and she gets the data
and we're good to go.
We can also support multiple matches.
I'm not very good at chess,
but there may be some of you
out there that can play 30
games of chess at a time.
And that's possible
with turn-based gaming.
We support up to 30 simultaneous matches.
We support 16 players per match.
This gameplay is fully asynchronous.
The game data we pass
around is up to 64K bytes.
The seats are filled via
invitation or auto-match.
The turn order is developer defined.
And missed turns are handled
through a callback list.
And the turn timeout which you
pass in will give you a constant
which defaults to two weeks.
But you can also choose
a different timeout.
Although we recommend you don't
make it like five minutes or
an hour because that would make
your game less fun for the users.
Now the expectations of a turn-based
game is that you need to be able to
handle multiple simultaneous matches.
Each one will have its own state,
its own player, its own outcome.
And you'll need to let the player
choose among the matches which one
they want to view or take a turn on.
Also, one player at a time.
Other players will observe,
but the player who has
the turn can make changes.
Now, your app is not always running.
A typical use pattern here is,
I'm off tweeting or updating my Facebook.
You know, a turn comes in.
I go, okay, I'll take that turn.
We'll launch your app,
I'll take the turn,
and then I'll exit and
go back to tweeting.
Now I want to write that
great American tweet,
so that's got to come first.
Now,
I may be anywhere in your app as well.
I may be taking a turn from Nate.
and Megan finishes her
turn and passes it to me.
You should handle this
notification and say,
hey, Christy,
Megan wants to play with you.
Do you want to exit your current
match or leave that current
match and go to Megan's game
and come back to Nate's later?
You just need to give a
good user experience here.
So the classes involved
with turn-based gaming.
We have a GK turn-based match.
This is the counterpart to
GK match for turn-based.
It represents a single instance
of the game as the list of
the participants involved.
It contains the current game state.
It also indicates whose turn it is.
Now what are these participants?
I've talked about players a lot,
but now I've brought up this new term,
participant.
And why do we have two things
that are sort of alike?
And the reason is the participant
is the slot at the table.
You know, it's an open position,
and until that player accepts
the invite or joins the game,
it doesn't have a player yet.
So turn-based gaming thinks
in terms of participants.
When that participant gets filled,
it gets a player ID set.
It has a status which is invited or
matching and then becomes active when
it's playing and then it becomes done.
The outcome of the game gets
filled in when the game is
over or the player quits.
And there are various outcomes like won,
lost, tied, and so forth.
We have a GK turn-based event handler.
This is a singleton for handling
all your turn-based events.
So this gets called when you
get invited or you join a match.
Or when an invite is initiated
from the Game Center app.
So those are the second two entry
points we talked about before.
It also gets called when
someone has taken their turn
or when the match has ended.
And finally, we have the GK Turn-Based
Matchmaker View Controller.
This is the focal point for
the actions in your game.
Now remember I told you that you have
to manage up to 30 simultaneous matches?
Well, it turns out that we can do
most of the work for you.
We provide a UI here that contains
a list of all your active matches.
Your current turn, matches that have the
other player's turn.
If there's an invite pending,
it'll show it at the top there.
It'll also show matches
that you've already won.
The user can select these and you'll get
a callback that lets your game show them.
So this could act as your
complete match manager.
If I swipe it,
I can delete it and that'll
quit from the match.
If I hit the plus on the upper right,
it'll take me to the matchmaking
UI and let me invite players or
just hit play now to auto match.
So it's a complete solution.
So how do we pose this?
We make a match request.
We construct the view controller,
just like with peer-to-peer.
Here's a difference, however.
There's a field on the
View Control called
Show Existing Matches.
If you want that match manager UI,
you set this to Yes.
If you prefer to roll your
own that's more integrated
with your look or whatever,
set that to No,
and you'll just get the matchmaking
piece but not the match manager piece.
And once you're ready, you present.
Now there's some delegate actions on
the ViewController that get called.
So when a user creates a new match,
they call didFindMatch.
When a user selects a match in the UI,
you also get called Turn-Based
Matchmaker ViewControllerDidFindMatch.
If you accept an invite,
you get called did find match.
If the user hits cancel
on the upper left,
you get turn-based matchmaker
view controller was canceled.
The match failed?
He had called with did fail with error.
If a user swipes to remove a match,
you get player quit for match.
Now let's implement did find
match for when a user selects one.
So the first thing we need to do,
and this is true of all of these events,
is you need to dismiss
the view controller.
We don't know when to take it down,
so you need to tell us.
Secondly,
now an improvement we've made in iOS
since iOS 5 is that we do our best
to make sure the match data is up
to date whenever you get the match.
So if you just get it off the match,
it'll have a current value.
But even so, it's still good to load
the latest match data.
Someone may have quit in the short
time between we last got it and now.
So I would load it.
Now display that match to your user.
And if it's your turn,
Allow them to take actions in the game.
Now the match data contains
the current state of the match.
The contents are developer defined.
It's completely up to you.
It's an arbitrary NSData.
It's stored online, so you must have the
current turn to update it.
But others can read it.
It's of a limited size of 64K,
so pack your data wisely.
And you can get a lot of stuff in here,
but if you need more room,
you can point to server-stored data.
Now let's talk about taking a turn.
So to take a turn,
you make a move in your game.
This is just up to you.
It's based on the rules of your game.
A player may make a move,
they may resign or pass or so forth,
depending on what you desire.
You choose the next players and you
call our API to submit the turn.
So to do this,
here's your update of your state.
Now you choose the next participants,
and I'll give you an example
of how to do that soon.
Then you set a message to be
shown to the other participants.
So in this case,
I made the Kessel run in 12 parsecs.
Hooray!
And now we send the new game
state to the Game Center and pass
the turn to the next participant.
And here's where you supply the timeout.
So how do we choose next participants?
Well, that's up to you.
You can go clockwise, counterclockwise.
You can skip every other player.
You can even let the player decide.
But you must choose active players.
If you choose a player who's
done with the game or quit,
it's an error.
And you should also guard
against missed turns.
And you do this by providing
a list of multiple next
participants rather than just one.
And this will automatically
enable the use of timeouts.
And the last participant on the list,
though, they will not get a timeout
because we don't know who to
give the turn to afterwards.
So I strongly recommend you add
yourself as the last participant.
Because if I just took a turn
and nobody else takes a turn,
Then I'm probably the most likely
person to take the next turn.
And you can do something
like mark the player as one.
So how do we do that?
Let's implement a simple
clockwise rotation.
So we're going to ask the match
for its participants and get the
index of the current participant.
Now, let's loop through the participants,
starting with the next one,
and add them if they are still active.
We add them to the array and we're
going to keep looping around.
Notice that my loop is post-decrement,
so that'll catch me,
the current participant,
as the last entry.
If there are participants remaining,
return that list.
Otherwise, return nil.
The game's over at this point.
There are no active participants.
You should handle that accordingly.
Now, this is a new feature in iOS 6,
which is saving match data.
So, some games, rather than having a
turn take a single step,
it might consist of
multiple discrete steps.
For example, in a trivia game,
let's say the MC is firing questions.
Let's say Nate is playing.
So the MC is going to fire
questions one after another to Nate.
As long as he keeps answering correctly,
his turn continues.
You know,
he doubles his money or whatnot.
If he answers incorrectly, his turn ends.
Now there's a few things about this.
Now let's say I'm playing
this game and I answer two
questions correctly on my iPad.
I switch to my iPhone.
Well, in iOS 5,
I would start that turnover.
You know, with this saved match data now,
I can continue with the third question.
Also, you know,
Megan and Dan are watching me play.
You know, they're running the game and
they're watching my updates.
My game can send updates to them.
And this is also good to
avoid cheating situations.
Like let's say I'm playing
a game and I roll some dice.
I don't lie, I get snake eyes.
Well, now I can -- I mean,
before I can go over to my
iPhone and I get a do-over
because I just launched the game,
start my turn.
But with saving match data,
when I launch that phone,
I'm going to have my die rolls there.
So it makes your game much more robust.
So to do this,
let's walk through that trivia example.
So we're going to have a while loop.
You ask trivia question.
Update game state.
Number correct plus one.
And we save the current
turn with match data.
And to illustrate this,
here I am and here's Megan and Dan.
They're running your game.
When I update,
I send the data to the server.
I keep my own copy.
I can continue with my turn.
Since they have running
instances of your game,
they will get an event handler
callback and they'll receive
a new copy of the data.
The other three players who
are doing something else,
they do not get push notifications.
But if they launch the game,
they'll get the same data and
they'll be able to follow along.
And this leads us into the kinds
of turn notifications we get.
If you receive an invite,
you'll get a push notification
and we'll call the delegate
method handleTurnEventForMatch.
If it becomes your turn, the same thing.
You get a push notification,
you get a handle turn event for match.
If the turn is passed to
someone else besides you,
only the running instances of the
game get handle turn event for match.
There's no push notification
sent in that case.
And likewise for saving the data.
If the match ends,
you get a push notification and
handleMatchEnded gets called.
Now let's talk about implementing
handleTurnEventForMatch.
There's a couple things
you should do here.
If it's now my turn, inform the user.
In this example, we're just using the
show banner with title,
but you can show whatever UI you want
and take whatever action you wish.
And similarly, handle that case of if
I'm playing the game,
if I'm taking a turn for another match,
or I'm just observing a match
and somebody makes a change,
we can check that and update our UI.
Now, things to remember when taking
a turn is only the current
participant may update the data,
and they're also the only
ones that can pass the turn.
Other players may quit during this time,
so you need to handle that.
And finally, handle your turn events.
Now for quitting a match,
this is when a player resigns
or they just decide to quit.
There's two cases here.
One is when it's my turn.
Quitting while I'm in turn
is just like taking a turn,
except I set an outcome
on that participant.
So you'll update your game state.
You'll set my outcome to quit,
and then you'll pass the turn by sending,
you know, player quit in turn
with completion handler.
And you can supply a participant list
with fallbacks and use the timeouts.
If it's not your turn,
you just inform Game Center by calling
an API player quit out of turn.
At that point,
it will just mark you as quit.
Now, if the game is over
and you have the turn,
you can end the match.
At this point,
you need to set the outcomes
for all participants.
And we provide a number of constants,
including one loss, tied,
various positions,
a player ran out of time, and so forth.
We can also set a -- we also provide
a custom field here so you can
show custom outcomes in your UI.
Provide an optional message.
And then inform Game Centers and
the notification goes out.
Now, how do we do this?
Well, we set the outcome.
In this case,
we're kind of lucky no one lost,
but we're not that lucky
because no one won either.
We set the final game state and
we set the optional message.
Yes, I really did win the
Kessel Run this time.
We end the match just by
calling our API and that's it.
Now that the game is over,
I want to play again.
And this is really easy.
You just put a button on your game over
screen and then you call on the match.
Re-match with completion handler.
And when this returns,
you can start your game.
In turn-based gaming,
this means I take the first turn,
and then when I'm done,
I can pass it to one of the
other participants who will
be invited back to play.
Now if Nate also does this on his device,
he'll get a match where
he can take a turn.
So there'll actually be two
instances of the matches created.
That's just the characteristic of
turn-based because the invites don't
happen until it becomes their turn.
Now in contrast to that,
we also support this on GK Match.
In the case of GK Match,
All the players who were in that
match who hit replay will get
auto-matched into a new match.
So the players who don't choose
to do this will get left out,
but the other ones will all get
matched into a single match.
But other than that,
it's really easy and we recommend
you add that because it adds more
replayability to these games.
So with that, I've given you a quick
walkthrough of multiplayer.
This is a really popular feature.
It adds a lot of longevity to your
app and engagement for your players.
I've talked about the different
styles of multiplayer we support.
I've gone into detail on
peer-to-peer and turn-based.
I've pointed you to documentation
for how to do server-based.
I've talked about the Matchmaker
UI and how it can make it really easy
for you to connect with your friends
and play or even with other people
on the Internet or in the same room.
I've talked about
programmatic matchmaking.
I've talked about peer-to-peer
communication and the
best practices thereof.
And then finally,
I've given you a nickel tour
through turn-based gaming.
For more information, you can contact the
incomparable Alan Schafer,
our wonderful evangelist.
Or you can read the documentation.
There's a multiplayer section in
the GameKit programming guide.
Or you can, you know, go to our forums.
We post and reply to your messages.
There are a number of related
sessions I hope you're able to make,
like what's new in Game Center,
integrating your games with Game Center,
or what's new in iTunes Connect.
And after me,
Gabe is going to show you hands-on
how to port your app to OSX and
broaden that customer base.
So please attend that.
That's awesome.
And thank you very much.